Blog 1

Premier Toronto Immigration Consultants – Bash Ali & Associates
Are you a dreamer? Wish to explore the world and live to experience different cultures and lifestyles? Do you find Canada a the perfect country for your way of life? If you’re planning to move to the Great White North or just want to go on a vacation, immigration is the only hassle in your way.

From students to tourists and family members of people living in Canada, every year thousands of people land in the country for different purposes. We being licensed immigration consultants in Toronto, are always happy to lend a helping hand.

Yes, the process of moving to a new country like Canada can seem a bit tedious. Endless paperwork and uncertainty of visa approval can be troubling thoughts. But with experienced immigration consultants in Toronto, the work can become a lot simpler.

Resolve Immigration Issues & File New Applications with the Best Immigration Consultants in Toronto
Your search for reliable and experienced Toronto Immigration Consultants has come to an end. Bash Ali and Associates, based in Toronto, is one of the best the city has to offer. Be it a matter of student visa extension, PR application, or Spousal Sponsorship, we can help you out with every process. below is a list of the services offered by Bash Ali and Associates.

Family Class Sponsorship Applications from in and outside Canada
Residency Obligation Appeals at Immigration and Appeal Division (IAD)
Detention Reviews at Immigration Division (ID) of IRB
Express Entry – Canadian Experience Class (CEC)
Provincial Nominee Programs (PNP)
Parents Super Visa applications
Humanitarian and Compassionate (H&C) Applications from within Canada
In-Canada Refugee Claims at Refugee Protection Division (RPD) of IRB
Family Class Sponsorship Appeals at Immigration and Appeal Division (IAD)
Removal Order appeals at Immigration and Appeal Division (IAD)
Admissibility Hearings at Immigration Division (ID) of IRB
Express Entry – Federal Skilled Workers (FSWP)
Visitor, PGWP, Study Permit applications, and extensions
Parents and Grandparents Sponsorship applications
Authorization to return to Canada (ARC) from outside Canada
Labour Market Impact Assessment
Work permit applications
Registered under the ICCRC (Immigration Consultants of Canada Regulatory Council), Bash Ali and Associates is a premier name in the industry.

Bash Ali & Associates – Trusted Immigration Consultant in Toronto
Bash Ali & Associates was started over two decades back and ever since been serving clients with success. Over the years, the company has helped hundreds settle down and start life in Canada.

Home to some of the best immigration consultants in Toronto, you’re always in good hands when working with the company. Simply discuss your requirements with one of the consultants and that’s all, a professional will take over the proceedings on your behalf.

So, do you have any immigration processes coming up in the near future? Are you seeking professional representation for any immigration hearings? If so, then why not hire one of the most trusted licensed immigration consultants in Toronto.

Regardless of what kind of assistance you may need our team is always available to lend a helping hand. We make it a point to always stay up-to-date with the latest developments in immigration legalities to provide the best service. Be it a detention review or PR Visa application, we can set you on the fast track to finding success.

For more information about our immigration services, feel free to connect with us anytime. Bash Ali & Associates are always happy to help make your dreams come true. 

Posted on July 10, 2020Author adminCategories Best Immigration Consultants In Toronto, Experienced Immigration Consultants In Toronto, Licenced Immigration Consultants Toronto, Toronto Immigration ConsultantTags Best Immigration Consultants In Toronto, Best Immigration Consultants Toronto, Experienced Immigration Consultants In Toronto, Immigration Consultant Toronto, Licensed Immigration Consultants Toronto, Toronto Immigration Consultant


Blog 2


How Sponsor a Visa for Common-Law Partner in Canada
Canada, as a country, understands and values the importance of family and loved ones. For which the country is always happy to grant visas for spouses and also common-law partners in Canada. If you’ve been living or recently moved to Canada alone, you can apply for permits for your pattern to do the same.

 

But, to live with your common-law partner in Canada you need to qualify to be a sponsor. So, if you.re planning to reunite with your other half in Canda, this blog should give you the necessary information.

 

Eligibility to be a Sponsor for Common-Law Partner in Canada?
 

You can sponsor your partner’s visa only if you already are a Canadian citizen or possess a PR Visa and also meet the following criteria.

 

You’re 18 years or older
You already live in the country or planning to return once partner becomes a permanent resident
Well off enough to provide the basic financial needs of your partner for at least three years
If you meet all the above-mentioned criteria you can move ahead with the visa sponsorship process. But you’ll also need to provide documents proving the validity of the relationship.

 

Necessary Documents for Proof of Relationship
 

In order to be recognized as a sponsor for your common-law partner in Canada, proving the relationship legitimate is important. Different factors are considered by the immigration department based on the nature of the relationship. Here are the necessary documents you need to provide to sponsor a visa for your common-law partner in Canada.

 

Fill up and submit the ‘Relationship Information and Sponsorship Evaluation’ questionnaire
Birth certificates or adoption records of children (if any)
Photos demonstrating that you are in a conjugal relationship
Proof of history of having lived together for at least one year
Apart from the above-mentioned documents, you also need to provide at least two from the next set of documents.

 

Documents proving the common-law partnership – employment or insurance policies
Records of providing financial support or of shared expenses with common law-partner 
Proof of recognition of the relationship among friends and family (letter,s social media or emails)
 

So, if you qualify for the mentioned criteria and possess the necessary documents, you can move ahead with the application process.

 

Find the application process confusing? We’re happy to help. Working with immigration experts can help in applying for the sponsorship much easier. For assistance with common-law partner sponsorship in Canada feel free to reach out to. Start your life with your partner in Canada with Bash Ali & Associates. 

Posted on April 30, 2020April 30, 2020Author adminCategories Common-Law Partner in CanadaTags Common-Law Partner Canada


Blog 3


Expert Toronto Immigration Consultants’ Update – Immigration During COVID19 Outbreak
The world as we know it is at a standstill. Unprecedented times have descended upon us and we’ve nothing to do other than wait it out and have faith new social soldiers. Like all other aspects of life, the global outbreak of the COVID-19 virus has also affected the government sector and official procedures.

In a country like Canada, immigration is an in-demand service all year round. Students and professionals alike look to get their approvals to start their life in the country.

So what is the current status of the Canadian immigration process? Here is what our trusted immigration consultants in Toronto have to say about the current situation.

Canadian Immigration Update – Our Toronto Immigration Consultants Speak
As per the latest news, the Immigration Refugees & Citizenship Canada (IRCC) is moving ahead with work normally. They’ll continue to process new applications for Permanent Residency visas in different Canadian provinces.

Applications with any kind of missing information will be reviewed within the stipulated 90 days period. And, complete applications will be processed staying true to the usual timeline. But, if you’re filing or have already filed a new application but forgot to include necessary supporting documents, then an extra document will be required. As an applicant, you’ll have to submit an explanation stating that the current emergency situation has stopped you from providing the specific document with the filing.

But what about the applicants who already possess a Confirmation of Permanent Residence (COPR) or PR Visa? If you’re one possessing any of these documents, you can intimate the IRCC about your situation as you’re not able to travel at this moment; the documents will remain valid and grant access to Canada when the situations permit.

As a matter of fact, all approved PRs, Temporary Foreign Workers, and also international students can still enter the country. All temporary foreign workers are exempt from travel restrictions and enter Canada by air or land. The same is applicable for students with valid/approved study permits on or before the 18th of March, 2020. 

Consult Professional Immigration Consultants in Toronto for Expert Advice During Coronavirus Crisis
So, if you’ve any kind of plans to travel or visit the country during this global crisis, we suggest consulting immigration experts. Our Toronto Immigration Consultants are working tirelessly to stay up-to-date with the latest developments in the field every single day. We hope to help every person seeking assistance with immigration process during this global crisis. 

For more information regarding immigration during the coronavirus outbreak, feel free to reach out to us anytime. We’re happy to help you through these troubled times.

Posted on April 29, 2020Author adminCategories Immigration Consultant Toronto, Toronto Immigration ConsultantTags Immigration Consultant Toronto, Toronto Immigration Consultant


Blog 4


How to Apply for In-land Spousal Sponsorship in Canada?
Congrats!!!!! You have finally met the love of your life, your better half…Your spouse is presently residing in Canada on either a visitor, student or a temporary work visa.  You both have decided to get married in Canada…now how to keep your loved one “your better half” to continue residing in Canada with you permanently?

 

As per section 123 of the Immigration and Refugee Protection Regulations (IRPR), Spouse or Common-Law Partner in Canada Class (SCLPC), the spouse or common-law partner in Canada class is hereby prescribed as a class of persons who may become permanent residents on the basis of the requirements of this Division.

 

124 A foreign national is a member of the spouse or common-law partner in Canada class if they

 

(a)are the spouse or common-law partner of a sponsor and cohabit with that sponsor in Canada;
(b)have temporary resident status in Canada; and
(c)are the subject of a sponsorship application.
 

In order for meeting the regulatory requirements to apply under the SCLPC stream, the married couple must be cohabiting in a conjugal relationship under the same roof.  This is one of the key components of applying and availing this stream among other requirements.  The foreign national must also maintain their temporary residence status in Canada while their application for permanent residency under the SCPLC category is being processed.

 

Openwork permit pilot program for permanent residence applicants in the spouse or common-law partner in Canada class (LMIA exemption code A70)
 

The foreign national is also eligible to apply for an open work permit while their application for permanent residency under this category is being processed.  They can either submit both the application for permanent residence and application for an open work permit at the same time or can submit at a later stage.  However, submitting both of the applications at the same time is highly recommended.  The open work permit application is processed within about 4 months from submitting the application to Case Processing Centre in Mississauga.

 

Eligibility for an open work permit:
 

Officers will issue open work permits to SCLPC class applicants if they meet the following requirements:

 

a permanent residence application has been submitted under the SCLPC class and is currently being processed, or has been received, by Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada for processing
a Canadian citizen or permanent resident spouse has submitted a sponsorship application on their behalf
the SCLPC class applicant resides at the same address as the sponsor
the SCLPC class applicant has valid temporary resident status (as a visitor, student or worker), or is eligible to restore their temporary resident status, and has submitted the restoration application with their application for permanent residence
 

The following foreign nationals do not qualify for the open work permit pilot program:

 

applicants who have applied for permanent residence under the SCLPC class and have been refused or have withdrawn that application before submitting the open work permit pilot application
applicants whose application for permanent residence is being processed under the spousal public policy (subcategory “PP” in the Global Case Management System [GCMS]) on the basis that they do not have a valid temporary resident status (these applicants must wait until they receive approval in principle to be eligible to apply for an open work permit)
applicants who have applied as members of the overseas family class, including those living in Canada
applicants applying for the work permit pilot program at a port of entry
 

Case processing centers will ensure that the requirements for the open work permit pilot program are met. They will also conduct system checks to identify any adverse information, on either the sponsor or the applicant, that would render the applicant ineligible for an open work permit.

 

If there is information that an applicant is inadmissible, their application for an open work permit will be placed on hold until a decision is made regarding their permanent residence application and the inadmissibility.

 

In situations where a temporary resident permit is issued to the applicant to overcome inadmissibility and where the person is an applicant for permanent residence under the SCLPC class, they may be issued an open work permit under this pilot program

 

TRAVEL OUTSIDE CANADA WHILE APPLICATION IS UNDER PROCESSING:
 

Please be advised that while your application is being processed under this category, it is highly advisable to restrict yours out of country travel to a minimum.  However, there are exceptions for making short trips for emergency reasons.  If for whatever reasons, you think that one of your physical absences from Canada is imminent for a longer period of stay, you must not apply using the SCLPC category.  Instead, you should consider applying from the Out-side Canada sponsorship application.

 

Excluded relationships:

 

125(1) A foreign national shall not be considered a member of the spouse or common-law partner in Canada class by virtue of their relationship to the sponsor if
(a)the foreign national is the sponsor’s spouse or common-law partner and is under 18 years of age;
(b)the foreign national is the sponsor’s spouse or common-law partner, the sponsor has an existing sponsorship undertaking in respect of a spouse or common-law partner and the period referred to in subsection 132(1) in respect of that undertaking has not ended;
(c)the foreign national is the sponsor’s spouse and
(i)the sponsor or the spouse was, at the time of their marriage, the spouse of another person, or
(ii)the sponsor has lived separate and apart from the foreign national for at least one year and
(A)the sponsor is the common-law partner of another person or the sponsor has a conjugal partner, or
(B)the foreign national is the common-law partner of another person or the conjugal partner of another sponsor;
 

SPONSOR’S ELIGIBILITY:

 

Sponsor

130(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), a sponsor, for the purpose of sponsoring a foreign national who makes an application for a permanent resident visa as a member of the family class or an application to remain in Canada as a member of the spouse or common-law partner in Canada class under subsection 13(1) of the Act, must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident who
(a)is at least 18 years of age;
(b)resides in Canada; and
(c)has filed a sponsorship application in respect of a member of the family class or the spouse or common-law partner in Canada class in accordance with section 10.
Five-year sponsorship bar
 

A person who became a permanent resident or a Canadian citizen after being sponsored as spouse, common-law partner or conjugal partner is barred from sponsoring a spouse or partner within five years of becoming a permanent resident, even if they acquired citizenship during that period.

 

A sponsor who became a permanent resident or a Canadian citizen after being sponsored as a spouse, common-law partner or conjugal partner under subsection 13(1) of the Act may not sponsor a foreign national referred to in subsection (1) as a spouse, common-law partner or conjugal partner unless the sponsor has been a permanent resident or a Canadian citizen, or a combination of the two, for a period of at least five years immediately preceding the day on which a sponsorship application referred to in paragraph (1)(c) is filed by the sponsor in respect of the foreign national.

 

Your obligations as a sponsor

 

When you agree to be a sponsor, you must sign an undertaking, promising to give financial support for the basic needs of your spouse or partner and their dependent children.

 

Basic needs are:

 

food, clothing, shelter and other needs for everyday living,
dental care, eye care and other health needs that aren’t covered by public health services.
 

Before signing the undertaking agreement, you must make sure the people you sponsor won’t need to ask the government for financial help. If they receive social assistance, you’ll have to pay back what they received during the time you are legally responsible for them. You won’t be able to sponsor anyone else until you’ve repaid the amount.

 

The undertaking is a binding promise of support, meaning that it is your responsibility to support the applicant(s) for the length of the undertaking period even if your situation changes. The undertaking will stay in effect for the length of the undertaking period, even if your situation changes. The undertaking won’t be canceled, even if:

 

the person you sponsor becomes a Canadian citizen
you become divorced, separated or your relationship with the sponsored person breaks down
you or the person you sponsor move to another province or country
you have financial problems
 

May I cancel my undertaking after it’s been approved?

 

If you change your mind after you submit the sponsorship application and undertaking, you must write us a letter before a final decision is made on the file and submit the letter as an attachment through the IRCC Webform. You can only withdraw an undertaking if we approve the withdrawal.

 

Length of undertaking:

 

Your obligations as a sponsor start as soon as the undertaking is in effect. If you change your mind after you submit the sponsorship application and undertaking, you must write IRCC a letter before a final decision is made on the file and submit the letter as an attachment through their IRCC Webform. You can only withdraw an undertaking if we approve the withdrawal.

 

You’re sponsoring a spouse, common-law partner or conjugal partner
 

Length of undertaking is 3 years from the day your spouse, common-law partner or conjugal partner becomes a permanent resident.

 

You’re sponsoring a dependent child over 22 years of age
 

The length of an undertaking is 3 years from the day your dependent child (or the dependent child of your spouse, common-law partner or conjugal partner) over 22 years of age becomes a permanent resident.

 

You’re sponsoring a dependent child under 22 years of age
 

Length of an undertaking is 10 years from the day your dependent child (or the dependent child of your spouse, common-law partner or conjugal partner) under 22 years of age becomes a permanent resident, or until the child becomes 22 years old, whichever comes first.

 

You can become a sponsor if you are:

 

at least 18 years old
a Canadian citizen or a permanent resident,
living in Canada:
able to prove that you are not receiving social assistance for reasons other than a disability, and;
 

You must also be able to show that you can provide basic needs for:

 

yourself,
your spouse or partner,
your spouse or partner’s dependent child(ren) (if applicable)
your dependent child(ren) (if you’re sponsoring only your dependent child).
 

Note: In most cases, there is no low-income-cut-off (LICO) for spouse, partner or dependent child sponsorships. However, if either a spouse or partner you’re sponsoring has as dependent child who has dependent children of their own, or a dependent child you are sponsoring has a dependent child of their own, you must meet a minimum LICO score, which is determined by the Canadian government each year.

 

You may not be able to sponsor if you…
 

are sponsoring a spouse or partner but you signed an undertaking for a previous spouse or partner and it hasn’t been three years since they became a permanent resident,
previously sponsored someone and did not pay back any social assistance that they received while the undertaking was in place.
are in default on an immigration loan or a performance bond
did not pay court-ordered alimony or child support
have declared bankruptcy which has not been discharged
were convicted of
an offence of a sexual nature,
a violent crime,
an offense against a relative that caused bodily harm or
threatened or attempted to commit any of the above offenses—depending on the nature of the offense, how long ago it happened and if you received a pardon
are sponsoring a spouse or partner and you were previously sponsored as a spouse, common-law or conjugal partner and became a permanent resident of Canada less than five years ago,
are under a removal order,
are in a penitentiary, jail, reformatory or prison,
have already applied to sponsor your current spouse or partner and haven’t received a decision.
Posted on March 24, 2020April 2, 2020Author adminCategories Inland Spousal Sponsorship Toronto, Spousal Sponsorship Canada, Spousal Sponsorship Refused TorontoTags Inland Spousal Sponsorship Toronto, Spousal Sponsorship Canada, Spousal Sponsorship Refused Toronto